So far, the centrality of a node
is defined using the degree and
the shortest distance to other nodes.
Now, we introduce a different idea.
We would like to say that
if you are important and
I'm connected to you,
then I must be somewhat important too.
In other words, my centrality
is proportional to the combined
centrality values of my neighbors.
Now, if we write that down mathematically
it would look like the top formula.
The centrality of (Vi) is
the sum of its neighbors.
Now, we can write that as an equation
where Lambda is
a proportionality constant.
The resulting equation looks exactly
like the Eigenvector equation we have
seen before.
Now again, you really do not
have to understand how it works.
It's fine to know that if
we solve that equation,
we will get the Eigen values lambda.
Now, let's take the largest lambda and
find the corresponding Eigenvector, which
will give you the centrality of each note.
Notice the difference between
the degree centrality and
the Eigenvector centrality
in the same graph.
The yellow node in the middle
has a low degree centrality
compared to its neighbors.
However, with the Eigenvector centrality,
the node becomes comparably more important
because the neighbor centrality status
boost some of the centrality of this node.
In contrast,
consider the second highlighted note.
It had the same on normalize degree
centrality as the previous node.
But because the neighbors
are low centrality nodes,
the eigenvector centrality goes down.
So, this is the intended consequence
of the eigenvector centrality measure.
Speaking of consequences,
Eigenvector centrality essentially says
if you know the right people,
your importance will go up.
Well, that's kind of risky proposition.
Here is me in a social network,
and let's say I'm connected to
this somewhat dubious character, and
I think it doesn't really matter.
What I don't know is that my connection
has it's own set of connections, and
look at who they are.
So, on the one hand, these shady
characters that are now connected to
indirectly does raise my
eigenvector centrality, but
it also has quite a damaging
effect on my reputation.
My EV centrality almost makes
me look like a suspect.
Now, think about that.
Now Brin and Page, the founders of Google
had an interesting way to think
about the eigenvector centrality.
They thought about a server.
Well no, not that kind of server.
This kind of server.
The kind that surfs the web.
But, this is a special web
surfer called a random surfer.
And here is what he does, he picks
a web page and looks at the links.
Then he chooses a random link, goes to
that page and does the same thing again.
Except sometimes when you kind of get
bored and goes to totally new page.
How often does he do this random jump?
Let's say, there's always sort
of a 15% chance that he will.
Or more generally,
with the probability of 1 minus alpha.
So, Page and Brin's idea was to figure out
that this surfer will visit a page with
a high chance, if the page is central.
They came up with a measure for
this stationary probability of a page
being visited by the random surfer.
They did not call it centrality,
they called it pagerank.
Let's see a YouTube video to
understand how pagerank behaves.
Okay, now we are talking about
the World Wide Web which is a huge graph.
How do we of such a graph?
The answer is iteratively using
a method called power iteration.
This method can be used because we
are looking for the largest eigenvalue.
Let me show you.
Let's take a small graph.
Let's initialize the still unknown
page rank as zero for all nodes.
Now, page rank A is a 0.15 chance,
that I was at A already.
And 0.85 chance that I come to A from B,
or I come to A from C.
However, at this point,
the page rank of B and C are at zero.
So, in the first iteration,
page rank of A is 0.15.
Now for B, I can only come to B from A,
but we cannot claim all of pagerank of A,
because there is always a half chance
that the surfer will come to B
from A because he could
also get to here from C.
This, plus the 0.15 chance that
the surfer is already at B,
makes Bs pagerank 0.21.
Now after doing a few rounds of this
computation, between 50 and 100 iteration,
let's say.
The values will converge.
Now, this computation has been
demonstrated to perform well
in the MapReduce framework.
In module four, we'll talk about
another way of computing this metric.